To implement our update method, let's start with shutting
down our server so that it doesn't continue to try to deploy
our changes as we save files.
I'm going to open up our RestControllerTest and just go to the bottom.
I'm actually going to copy this testGetRide that we did and change it. Much
of the code will be the same. I'm going to call this testUpdateRide, and
we're going to leave the same getForObject in here that we had before and
just turn around and call that for our save. So we'll say ride, and rather
than hard code a value in here,
I'm going to actually update one of the values that gets returned.
So I'm going to say ride.setDuration and call ride.getDuration +1 in here.
So basically taking whatever value gets returned,
updating that by one, and setting it back in that object.
Now we can turn around and use that same RestTemplate that we already
have and say restTemplate.put, and I'm going to take the URL that we have
from up above here and copy that down below.
So we're going to call that URL with a put and then pass in our ride object.
So that's what that entire method looks like now. You can
leave the System.out.println at the bottom,
but it's going to just be outoutting to the screen what
you have already retrieved from before, not what necessarily gets updated.
Now we can go ahead and open up our RideController and go to the bottom just
like we did before and I'm going to do the same thing,
copy that getRide that we have and change that to be our updateRide.
And inside of here, I'm going to just cut that down to /ride,
change the RequestMethod to PUT, and now change the method to
updateRide. And we don't need a path variable anymore and rather
just the object that we're going to pass in.
So we'll say @RequestBody and we'll just passing
the object Ride and name it ride.
And now we can call our rideService.updateRide. And this method
won't exist yet, so it will give us an error.
So we'll say updateRide. And that's everything that
we need inside of our controller.
Now there's two ways you can go about this.
I'm going to use the helper method by clicking on the red X
that you should have over here as well and say Create method
updateRide in type RideService.
So when I double‑click on that, it's going to add this signature to our
RideService interface and subsequently give us that red X inside of our
RideServiceImpl. Going into our RideServiceImpl, I can go to the bottom
and hit Ctrl+spacebar and it will ask me to update the ride, or add our
updateRide method in there, and inside of here we can do the same thing.
Very quickly say return rideRepository.updateRide and pass in the ride
object.
And just like before, this method signature currently doesn't exist.
So I can click that red X again and say Create method
updateRide in type RideRepository.
Once I say this, it will transfer that red X to our RideRepositoryImpl.
Don't worry, in the next module, we're going to use the service tier for
more than just a passthrough, so you won't be wondering why we're just
creating all of these passthrough methods.
Now let's open up our RideRepositoryImpl and likewise go to the bottom, hit
Ctrl+spacebar, and it will ask us if we want to add that updateRide method. So
we can double‑click on that. Now we have all the pieces in place to issue our
update statement using the JdbcTemplate.
I'm going to go ahead and say jdbcTemplate.update, and this is pretty
straightforward SQL, so we're just going to now say update ride set name
= ?, and this is using the PreparedStatement syntax, say duration = ?
where id = ?, and now we can close that SQL off and put in a comma, and
I'm going to carry this down to the next line so that you can see it
easier, say ride.getName, ride.getDuration, and ride.getId. Since this is
an update,
we have that ID stored in our object. And now, we'll just return ride from
here. Now we can save that, and all of the pieces are in place to now run our
test. So I'm going to exit full screen mode and start our server up. Everything
looks like it started up fine there. I'm going to switch to our test. Now I'm
going to right‑click on testUpdateRide and say Run As, Unit Test, and we can
see that it ran, but let's verify that it did actually run against the values
in our database. So I can switch to MySQL Workbench and just issue a select
statement of select * from Ride where id =1, and it says the duration is 37.
If I switch back and run that test again, say Run As, JUnit Test. It ran again.
If I issue that select statement again, it should say 38, and it
does. So, recapping all those pieces, we went to our test and
created this testUpdateRide where we retrieved an object based off
of its ID and then set a duration,
just took the current value that it is, added 1 to it,
set that back in that object, and then called a put with that object,
which in turn calls our RideController, it takes in that object, does an
update right into our service tier on it, which went through the
interface and then to the implementation, which passed it to our
repository tier, which again is just the signature going to our update
statement where we used basic PreparedStatement syntax of question marks
and passed in those values through var args to issue that update
statement.
Pretty straightforward, not too complex. Let's look at doing the same thing using batch updates.